workshop/exercise3.adoc, before:

:figure-caption!:

= Exercise Three - Working with Inventory Groups

For our example, I created 2 EC2 instances with the `user_id` value of bsmith (we'll call him Billy). You can see his Inventory Group in Figure 18 above. Let's make sure his systems are up and available. We can do this with his Inventory Group. For this exercise, do the same thing with your inventory group.

[TIP]
For this lab substitute your own Inventory Group for `tag_user_id_bsmith`.

In the Inventories page, select the `tag_user_id_bsmith` group and click the `RUN COMMANDS` button that became available when you selected the group.

In the new dialog box that opens up, select the 'Ping' module and use our `ansible-lab-instances` Machine Credential.

image::ansible-lab-task4-1-execute-tag-ping.png[caption="Figure 17: ", title="Running an Arbitrary Command using an Inventory Group"]

Next, click the `Launch` button.

If all goes well, we will get a pong back from all of your systems.

image::ansible-lab-task4-2-ping-results.png[caption="Figure 18: ", title="Successful Pongs from our Inventory Group"]

With a few mouse clicks, we can run powerful arbitrary commands on any subset of our infrastructure. Pretty Awesome!

[TIP]
You can, of course, select multiple groups, or individual hosts, before launching your Commands.

Commit message:

Fixed the following documentation issues:
Documentation issues
====================

Organization
AWS credential
- note permissions - Team / Use
- add screenshot

Machine credential
- note permissions - change from Admin to Use
- update screenshot

Projects
- Update "public github repo" URL
- Add text for adding permissions
  - Team permissions should be Use

Groups
- update screenshot to remove Instance Filter (tag:role...)
  - also check Overwrite in the same screenshot
- after creating the group include note for adding "127.0.0.1" host
- Add note to grant permissions on Inventory [Use and Ad-hoc]

Job templates
- Add note to grant Lab-Team permission Admin to job template
- Create two provisioning job templates - Even and Odd

Exercise 1
- Make process for running EC2 deploy more clear
- Note for students to use the even/odd EC2_provision template then deploy their instance

Exercise 2
- Leveraging Amazon tags in tower
  - ADD: have students do more than review existing tags
  - specify tags location - inventories / ansible-ec2-instances / ec2-east / tags / tag_user_id

Exercise 3
- Make more clear the action to check the group name in order to execute

Exercise 4
- Add the steps necessary to run the user creation job

workshop/exercise3.adoc, after:

:figure-caption!:

= Exercise Three - Working with Inventory Groups

image::student1_inventory_group.png[caption="Figure 17: ", title="Tagged User Inventory Group"]

For our example, I created 2 EC2 instances with the `user_id` value of student1. You can see his Inventory Group in Figure 17, above. Let's make sure his systems are up and available. We can do this with his Inventory Group. For this exercise, do the same thing with your inventory group.

image::ansible-lab-task4-1-execute-tag-ping.png[caption="Figure 18: ", title="Running an Arbitrary Command using an Inventory Group"]

[TIP]
.For this lab substitute your own Inventory Group for `tag_user_id_student1`.
====
. In the Inventories page, check the box next to the `tag_user_id_student1` group and click the image:button_run_commands.png[Title="Run Commands Button"] button that became available when you selected the group.
. In the new dialog box that opens up, select the 'Ping' module and use our `ansible-lab-instances` Machine Credential.
. Click the image:button_launch_text.png[Title="Launch Button"] button, to execute the job.
====

If all goes well, we will get a pong back from all of your systems.

image::ansible-lab-task4-2-ping-results.png[caption="Figure 19: ", title="Successful Pongs from our Inventory Group"]

With a few mouse clicks, we can run powerful arbitrary commands on any subset of our infrastructure. Pretty Awesome!

[TIP]
You can, of course, select multiple groups, or individual hosts, before launching your Commands.
