workshop/exercise2.adoc, before:

:figure-caption!:

= Exercise Two - Working with Inventories

[IMPORTANT]
If you are having trouble creating an instance or two, shout loud and start waving your hands!

=== Creating Amazon Tags

Now that we all have our own vm's created, let's do some work with them. First off, we need a way to distinguish your systems from the other lab systems that we just created. Luckily, we've already thought of that for us.

Each instance that was created in EC2 had two tags attached to it as well. The first, `ansible_lab`, is the same for everyone. It allows us to easily find and remove these test instances at the end of our lab today. After all, EC2 is cheap, but it ain't free. :)

The second tag is called `user_id`, and is set to the value that you set when you ran you EC2 Creation Job.

The relevant part of the task is

[source]
----
  ec2:
...
    instance_tags:
      ansible_lab: true
      user_id: "{{ user_tag }}"
----

image::ansible-lab-task3-1-ec2-console-tags.png[caption="Figure 15: ", title="Amazon Tagging that was created by our Job"]

=== Leveraging Amazon Tags in Tower

After we created our instances we updated our EC2 Inventory. As part of this update, Tower pulled in all of the tags that are in EC2 and correlated them back to our Inventory. For each unique tag value, Tower auto-creates a group that we can leverage. You can access these groups through your Inventory.

They are created with the taxonomy:

`tag_tagname_tagvalue`

For example, for our `user_id` tag, when I used `jduncan` as the value in my Job Template, Tower created the tag `tag_user_id_jduncan`.

In the Inventories page, I can select these tag groups and do work on them as a whole.

image::ansible-lab-task3-2-ansible-tags.png[caption="Figure 16: ", title="Using Amazon Tags to Create Dynamic Groups in Ansible Tower"]

Commit message:

Fixed the following documentation issues:
Documentation issues
====================

Organization
AWS credential
- note permissions - Team / Use
- add screenshot

Machine credential
- note permissions - change from Admin to Use
- update screenshot

Projects
- Update "public github repo" URL
- Add text for adding permissions
  - Team permissions should be Use

Groups
- update screenshot to remove Instance Filter (tag:role...)
  - also check Overwrite in the same screenshot
- after creating the group include note for adding "127.0.0.1" host
- Add note to grant permissions on Inventory [Use and Ad-hoc]

Job templates
- Add note to grant Lab-Team permission Admin to job template
- Create two provisioning job templates - Even and Odd

Exercise 1
- Make process for running EC2 deploy more clear
- Note for students to use the even/odd EC2_provision template then deploy their instance

Exercise 2
- Leveraging Amazon tags in tower
  - ADD: have students do more than review existing tags
  - specify tags location - inventories / ansible-ec2-instances / ec2-east / tags / tag_user_id

Exercise 3
- Make more clear the action to check the group name in order to execute

Exercise 4
- Add the steps necessary to run the user creation job

workshop/exercise2.adoc, after:

:figure-caption!:

= Exercise Two - Working with Inventories

[IMPORTANT]
If you are having trouble creating an instance or two, shout loud and start waving your hands!

=== Creating Amazon Tags

Now that we all have our own vm's created, let's do some work with them. First off, we need a way to distinguish your systems from the other lab systems that we just created. Luckily, we've already thought of that for us.

Each instance that was created in EC2 had two tags attached to it as well. The first, `ansible_lab`, is the same for everyone. It allows us to easily find and remove these test instances at the end of our lab today. After all, EC2 is cheap, but it ain't free. :)

The second tag is called `user_id`, and is set to the value that you set when you ran you EC2 Creation Job.

The relevant part of the task is

[source,yaml]
----
  ec2:
    instance_tags:
      ansible_lab: true
      user_id: "{{ user_tag }}"
----

image::ansible-lab-task3-1-ec2-console-tags.png[caption="Figure 15: ", title="Amazon Tagging that was created by our Job"]

=== Leveraging Amazon Tags in Tower

After we created our instances we updated our EC2 Inventory. As part of this update, Tower pulled in all of the tags that are in EC2 and correlated them back to our Inventory. For each unique tag value, Tower auto-creates a group that we can leverage. You can access these groups through your Inventory.

They are created with the taxonomy:

`tag_tagname_tagvalue`

For example, for our `user_id` tag, when I used `jduncan` as the value in my Job Template, Tower created the tag `tag_user_id_jduncan`.

In the Inventories page, I can select these tag groups and do work on them as a whole.

image::ansible-lab-task3-2-ansible-tags.png[caption="Figure 16: ", title="Using Amazon Tags to Create Dynamic Groups in Ansible Tower"]

[TIP]
.To find the list of automatically-created tag groups:
====
* Click on `INVENTORIES`.
* Click on `ansible-ec2-instances`.
* Click on `ec2-east`.
* Click on `tags`.
====

You can now see all of the automatic groups. To find your own user-name group, click on `tag_user_id`.
