workshop/exercise4.adoc, before:

:figure-caption!:

= Exercise Four - Creating a Job Template

At this point, we can confidently navigate and we have gone through (almost) all of the major concepts in Ansible Tower. The final scripted exercise we have scheduled for today is going through the process around creating a Job Template.

Like we talked about earlier, a Job Template takes all of the other components that are tracked in Ansible Tower and brings them together to do actual work. To do a job.

It's usually pretty straightforward.

The thing that you have to do, though, is account for ALL of the variables that your playbook needs. These either have to be account for in:

* your playbook role itself (in the code)
* in your Job Templates `Extra Variables` field
* in your Job Templates as a Survey

For this exercise, we will create a Job Template that will create local users on a given system. First, let's look at our playbook. For this we will be using link:https://github.com/ajacocks/Ansible/tree/master/rhel_host_config[`rhel_host_config`] section in our GitHub repo.

.playbook
[source]
----
---
- name: setup rhel VM
  hosts: all
  gather_facts: no
  become: true

  roles:
    - host_common
----

.host_common role tasks
[source]
----
---
- name: Add or remove user account
  user:
    name: "{{ item.name }}"
    group: users
    home: /home/{{ item.name }}
    password: "$6$rounds=656000$3s/q6j43TVMvo82J$CSZt.mYCTFADfParJDxYeiOM/AlovGpc1idDtehmpau6zQ94CBrMfuxaNyXhdk/t.kpgOOTw.9sueGrRttJrL0"
    state: "{{ user_state }}"
    remove: yes
  with_items:
    - "{{ users }}"
  tags:
    - users

- name: Force user with default password to change password at next login
  command: chage -d 0 {{ item.name }}
  when: user_state == "present"
  with_items:
    - "{{ users }}"
  tags:
    - users

- name: Add or remove yum packages
  package:
    name: "{{ item }}"
    state: "{{ package_state }}"
    use: yum
  with_items:
    - "{{ package_list }}"
  tags:
    - packages

- name: create the /etc/motd file
  template:
    src: motd.j2
    dest: /etc/motd
    owner: root
    group: root
    mode: 0644
  tags:
    - motd
----

As we can see, the playbook calls the host_common role, and that role has several tasks that can be put together or seperated by their tags.

For this example exercise, we will create a job template that will add system users to our systems that will let us log in. Looking at the tasks with a `user` tag, we need to account for a few variables:

* users - a dictionary of users with a name value
* user_password - a password (encrypted)
* user_state - to feed into the ansible task. There are a few valid options here.

We will create a simple survey to handle all of this, along with prompting for our `Extra Variables` in the Job Template so we can dynamically create users for a given system or group of systems.

image::add-users-student25-part1.png[caption="Figure 19: ", title="Creating a Job Template to Add Users (Part 1)"]
image::add-users-student25-part2.png[caption="Figure 20: ", title="Creating a Job Template to Add Users (Part 2)"]

[TIP]
.A Few Important Items
====
* We don't need Cloud Credentials since we are ssh-ing directly into the system to make changes
* Notice the `Job Tags` field is referencing the `users` tag that is defined in the role. This way this Job will only execute those tasks.
* The user name is defined by the `users:` dictionary, in the `Extra Variables` section, and is automatically set to the user ID that you logged in to tower with.
====

image::add-users-student25-survey.png[caption="Figure 21: ", title="Creating a Job Template Survey"]

Commit message:

Fixed the following documentation issues:
Documentation issues
====================

Organization
AWS credential
- note permissions - Team / Use
- add screenshot

Machine credential
- note permissions - change from Admin to Use
- update screenshot

Projects
- Update "public github repo" URL
- Add text for adding permissions
  - Team permissions should be Use

Groups
- update screenshot to remove Instance Filter (tag:role...)
  - also check Overwrite in the same screenshot
- after creating the group include note for adding "127.0.0.1" host
- Add note to grant permissions on Inventory [Use and Ad-hoc]

Job templates
- Add note to grant Lab-Team permission Admin to job template
- Create two provisioning job templates - Even and Odd

Exercise 1
- Make process for running EC2 deploy more clear
- Note for students to use the even/odd EC2_provision template then deploy their instance

Exercise 2
- Leveraging Amazon tags in tower
  - ADD: have students do more than review existing tags
  - specify tags location - inventories / ansible-ec2-instances / ec2-east / tags / tag_user_id

Exercise 3
- Make more clear the action to check the group name in order to execute

Exercise 4
- Add the steps necessary to run the user creation job

workshop/exercise4.adoc, after:

:figure-caption!:

= Exercise Four - Creating a Job Template

At this point, we can confidently navigate and we have gone through (almost) all of the major concepts in Ansible Tower. The final scripted exercise we have scheduled for today is going through the process around creating a Job Template.

Like we talked about earlier, a Job Template takes all of the other components that are tracked in Ansible Tower and brings them together to do actual work. To do a job.

It's usually pretty straightforward.

The thing that you have to do, though, is account for ALL of the variables that your playbook needs. These either have to be account for in:

* your playbook role itself (in the code)
* in your Job Templates `Extra Variables` field
* in your Job Templates as a Survey

For this exercise, we will create a Job Template that will create local users on a given system. First, let's look at our playbook. For this we will be using link:https://github.com/ajacocks/Ansible/tree/master/rhel_host_config[`rhel_host_config`] section in our GitHub repo.

.playbook
[source,yaml]
----
---
- name: setup rhel VM
  hosts: all
  gather_facts: no
  become: true

  roles:
    - host_common
----

.host_common role tasks
[source,yaml]
----
---
- name: Add or remove user account
  user:
    name: "{{ item.name }}"
    group: users
    home: /home/{{ item.name }}
    password: "$6$rounds=656000$3s/q6j43TVMvo82J$CSZt.mYCTFADfParJDxYeiOM/AlovGpc1idDtehmpau6zQ94CBrMfuxaNyXhdk/t.kpgOOTw.9sueGrRttJrL0"
    state: "{{ user_state }}"
    remove: yes
  with_items:
    - "{{ users }}"
  tags:
    - users

- name: Force user with default password to change password at next login
  command: chage -d 0 {{ item.name }}
  when: user_state == "present"
  with_items:
    - "{{ users }}"
  tags:
    - users

- name: Add or remove yum packages
  package:
    name: "{{ item }}"
    state: "{{ package_state }}"
    use: yum
  with_items:
    - "{{ package_list }}"
  tags:
    - packages

- name: create the /etc/motd file
  template:
    src: motd.j2
    dest: /etc/motd
    owner: root
    group: root
    mode: 0644
  tags:
    - motd
----

As we can see, the playbook calls the host_common role, and that role has several tasks that can be put together or seperated by their tags.

For this example exercise, we will create a job template that will add system users to our systems that will let us log in. Looking at the tasks with a `user` tag, we need to account for a few variables:

* users - a dictionary of users with a name value
* user_password - a password (encrypted)
* user_state - to feed into the ansible task. There are a few valid options here.

We will create a simple survey to handle all of this, along with prompting for our `Extra Variables` in the Job Template so we can dynamically create users for a given system or group of systems.

image::add-users-student25-part1.png[caption="Figure 20: ", title="Creating a Job Template to Add Users (Part 1)"]
image::add-users-student25-part2.png[caption="Figure 21: ", title="Creating a Job Template to Add Users (Part 2)"]

[TIP]
.A Few Important Items
====
* We don't need Cloud Credentials since we are ssh-ing directly into the system to make changes
* Notice the `Job Tags` field is referencing the `users` tag that is defined in the role. This way this Job will only execute those tasks.
* The user name is defined by the `users:` dictionary, in the `Extra Variables` section, and is automatically set to the user ID that you logged in to tower with.
====

image::add-users-student25-survey.png[caption="Figure 22: ", title="Creating a Job Template Survey"]

[TIP]
.Once the job template and accompanying survey are completed and saved:
====
* Click the image:button_launch.png[Title="Launch Button"] (launch) button next to the `add users student1` (using your user name, instead of `student1`) template, in the `Job Templates` section, at the bottom of the screen.
* Select whether the user should be present, or absent.  For this example, choose `present`.
* Click the image:button_launch_text.png[Title="Text Launch Button"] button, to execute the job.
* You will be redirected to a job monitoring screen, like the figure, below:
====

[cols="2"]
|===
a|image::student1_user_create_results.png[]
a|image::student1_user_create_stdout.png[]
|===
