workshop/exercise1.adoc, before:

:figure-caption!:
:tower_url: https://ansible.tower.redhat-fierce.io

= Exercise One - Creating EC2 Instances

[IMPORTANT]
Be sure you can log in to {tower_url}. The email you used to register for this workshop should be your username and the password will be shown as part of the lab. If you can't log in start shouting, loudly, and waving your hands!

Now that everyone can log into Ansible Tower (right?!), everyone will be able to create a few EC2 instances to use during our following labs. You should be able to see a job template called `Provision EC2 Instances`. Click the `launch` button next to it in the `Job Templates` screen.

[TIP]
Can you see the job we used to create all of the user accounts?

You will be prompted for a survey when you launch a Job based on this Job Template.

=== Playbook Tags

If you look at the link:https://github.com/dischord01/Ansible_Tower_Workshop/blob/master/roles/ansible.tower/tasks/user_setup.yml[playbook role that creates users in Tower], you will notice that the tasks have tags associated with them.

[source]
----
...
- name: Wait for SSH to come up
  local_action: wait_for host={{ item.public_dns_name }} port=22 delay=60 timeout=320 state=started
  with_items: "{{ ec2.instances }}"
  tags:
    - provision # <1>

- name: gather ec2 facts
  action: ec2_facts
  tags:
    - terminate # <2>
...
----
<1> provision tag
<2> terminate tag

The tags can be referenced in a playbook to limit which tasks in a role are called. It allows you to selectively run parts of roles without lots of messy logic. They are link:http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/playbooks_tags.html[fully documented].

Inside a Job Template, you can use tags as well. In our EC2 Provisioning Job Template, we are only running tasks in the role that have a `provision` tag.

image::ansible-lab-task2-2-job-tags.png[caption="Figure 14: ", title="Limiting Roles with Tags"]

[TIP]
Job Templates can also prompt for Playbook Tags at launch. Even more ways to be dynamic and not have to repeat yourself!

Commit message:

Fixed the following documentation issues:
Documentation issues
====================

Organization
AWS credential
- note permissions - Team / Use
- add screenshot

Machine credential
- note permissions - change from Admin to Use
- update screenshot

Projects
- Update "public github repo" URL
- Add text for adding permissions
  - Team permissions should be Use

Groups
- update screenshot to remove Instance Filter (tag:role...)
  - also check Overwrite in the same screenshot
- after creating the group include note for adding "127.0.0.1" host
- Add note to grant permissions on Inventory [Use and Ad-hoc]

Job templates
- Add note to grant Lab-Team permission Admin to job template
- Create two provisioning job templates - Even and Odd

Exercise 1
- Make process for running EC2 deploy more clear
- Note for students to use the even/odd EC2_provision template then deploy their instance

Exercise 2
- Leveraging Amazon tags in tower
  - ADD: have students do more than review existing tags
  - specify tags location - inventories / ansible-ec2-instances / ec2-east / tags / tag_user_id

Exercise 3
- Make more clear the action to check the group name in order to execute

Exercise 4
- Add the steps necessary to run the user creation job

workshop/exercise1.adoc, after:

:figure-caption!:
:tower_url: https://ansible.tower.redhat-fierce.io

= Exercise One - Creating EC2 Instances

[IMPORTANT]
Be sure you can log in to {tower_url}. The email you used to register for this workshop should be your username and the password will be shown as part of the lab. If you can't log in start shouting, loudly, and waving your hands!

Now that everyone can log into Ansible Tower (right?!), everyone will be able to create a few EC2 instances to use during our following labs.

[TIP]
.Perform the following steps:
====
. Find the two job templates called `job-provision-ec2-instances-even` and `job-provision-ec2-instances-odd`.
. If your student number is even (2, 4, 6, etc.), click the image:button_launch.png[Title="Launch Button"] (launch) button next to the `job-provision-ec2-instances-even` template, in the `Job Templates` screen.
. Similarly, if your student number is odd (1, 3, 5, etc.), click the image:button_launch.png[Title="Launch Button"] (launch) button next to the `job-provision-ec2-instances-odd` template, in the `Job Templates` screen.
. Last, select the number of instances that you would like to create, and then click the image:button_launch_text.png[Title="Text Launch Button"] button.
====

[NOTE]
Can you see the job we used to create all of the user accounts?

You will be prompted for a survey when you launch a Job based on this Job Template.

=== Playbook Tags

If you look at the link:https://github.com/dischord01/Ansible_Tower_Workshop/blob/master/roles/ansible.tower/tasks/user_setup.yml[playbook role that creates users in Tower], you will notice that the tasks have tags associated with them.

[source,yaml]
----
- name: Wait for SSH to come up
  local_action: wait_for host={{ item.public_dns_name }} port=22 delay=60 timeout=320 state=started
  with_items: "{{ ec2.instances }}"
  tags:
    - provision # <1>

- name: gather ec2 facts
  action: ec2_facts
  tags:
    - terminate # <2>
----
<1> provision tag
<2> terminate tag

The tags can be referenced in a playbook to limit which tasks in a role are called. It allows you to selectively run parts of roles without lots of messy logic. They are link:http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/playbooks_tags.html[fully documented].

Inside a Job Template, you can use tags as well. In our EC2 Provisioning Job Template, we are only running tasks in the role that have a `provision` tag.

image::ansible-lab-task2-2-job-tags.png[caption="Figure 14: ", title="Limiting Roles with Tags"]

[TIP]
Job Templates can also prompt for Playbook Tags at launch. Even more ways to be dynamic and not have to repeat yourself!
