workshop/index.adoc, before:

:badges:
:icons:
:toc-title: Agenda
:toc2: left
:iconsdir: http://people.redhat.com/~jduncan/images/icons
:imagesdir: http://tower.workshop.redhat-fierce.io/_images
:date: 26-Oct-2016
:location: Denver, CO
:tower_url: https://ansible.tower.redhat-fierce.io
:toclevels: 3
:source-highlighter: highlight.js

= Automation for Everyone

.Before We Get Started
****
[.lead]
Overview

Today is meant for anyone who has any exposure to Ansible, whether you have used it or not. We are going to start with a short overview (yes, slideware) and then we'll get into the lab as soon as possible. That is where we will spend most of our time.

[.lead]
Your Responsibilities

* Have a discussion. This will be boring if it's just us up here talking for over 2 hours.
* Participate. We are going to cut you loose in a live Ansible Tower instance here in just a little while. Have questions. Have opinions.

Hopefully you have your laptop with you. If not, please find a shoulder-surfing buddy. See? Not only can we dig into Ansible but you can make a new friend!

[IMPORTANT]
.WiFi Access
====
ssid: `Foothills Guest`
====
****


.Today's Team
****
[.lead]
Jonathan Van Meter - Solutions Architect

Jonathan is a virtualization infrastructucture, architecture and design specialist, who has been working with Red Hat Linux since 1999.

[.lead]
Brad Sollar - Solutions Architect

Brad is a cloud and security specialist, with a background in development.  He has been working with Red Hat Enteprise Linux based solutions since 2007.

[.lead]
{empty}J. Alexander Jacocks - Solutions Architect

Alex has been with Red Hat for 6 months, but has been using Red Hat Linux since 1996.  He lives in the (very) rural Eastern Shore of Maryland, and is entirely dedicated to the advancement of UNIX, across the world.

****
== Document Copyright

This document was created by and for Red Hat, Inc. It is being released under link:https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/[Creative Commons License 4.0]. You are free to re-use it in whole or in part.

You must give appropriate credit, provide a link to the license, and indicate if changes were made. You may do so in any reasonable manner, but not in any way that suggests the licensor endorses you or your use.

== Installing Ansible Tower
image::ansible_tower_logo.png[Ansible]
=== Infrastructure

For this lab, we will be using Ansible Tower 3.0.2, which is the latest production release. We are running it in an link:https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/[`m4.xlarge`] AWS instance.

[NOTE]
.We know this is resource overkill
====
But we'll only be running this for a few days and our bosses are paying the bill. :)
====

Commit message:

Fixed the following documentation issues:
Documentation issues
====================

Organization
AWS credential
- note permissions - Team / Use
- add screenshot

Machine credential
- note permissions - change from Admin to Use
- update screenshot

Projects
- Update "public github repo" URL
- Add text for adding permissions
  - Team permissions should be Use

Groups
- update screenshot to remove Instance Filter (tag:role...)
  - also check Overwrite in the same screenshot
- after creating the group include note for adding "127.0.0.1" host
- Add note to grant permissions on Inventory [Use and Ad-hoc]

Job templates
- Add note to grant Lab-Team permission Admin to job template
- Create two provisioning job templates - Even and Odd

Exercise 1
- Make process for running EC2 deploy more clear
- Note for students to use the even/odd EC2_provision template then deploy their instance

Exercise 2
- Leveraging Amazon tags in tower
  - ADD: have students do more than review existing tags
  - specify tags location - inventories / ansible-ec2-instances / ec2-east / tags / tag_user_id

Exercise 3
- Make more clear the action to check the group name in order to execute

Exercise 4
- Add the steps necessary to run the user creation job

workshop/index.adoc, after:

:badges:
:icons:
:toc-title: Agenda
:toc2: left
:iconsdir: http://people.redhat.com/~jduncan/images/icons
:imagesdir: http://tower.workshop.redhat-fierce.io/_images
:date: 26-Oct-2016
:location: Denver, CO
:tower_url: https://ansible.tower.redhat-fierce.io
:toclevels: 3
:source-highlighter: highlight.js

= Automation for Everyone

.Before We Get Started
****
[.lead]
Overview

Today is meant for anyone who has any exposure to Ansible, whether you have used it or not. We are going to start with a short overview (yes, slideware) and then we'll get into the lab as soon as possible. That is where we will spend most of our time.

[.lead]
Your Responsibilities

* Have a discussion. This will be boring if it's just us up here talking for over 2 hours.
* Participate. We are going to cut you loose in a live Ansible Tower instance here in just a little while. Have questions. Have opinions.

Hopefully you have your laptop with you. If not, please find a shoulder-surfing buddy. See? Not only can we dig into Ansible but you can make a new friend!

[.lead]
Conventions Used in This Document
[TIP]
.Whenever you see a section like this:
====
* Please pay attention to the steps listed.
* We are leading you through a procedure, to help you to understand how Ansible Tower functions.
====

[.lead]
Location-Specific Information
[IMPORTANT]
.WiFi Access
====
ssid: `Foothills Guest`
====
****


.Today's Team
****
[.lead]
Jonathan Van Meter - Solutions Architect

Jonathan is a virtualization infrastructucture, architecture and design specialist, who has been working with Red Hat Linux since 1999.

[.lead]
Brad Sollar - Solutions Architect

Brad is a cloud and security specialist, with a background in development.  He has been working with Red Hat Enteprise Linux based solutions since 2007.

[.lead]
{empty}J. Alexander Jacocks - Solutions Architect

Alex has been with Red Hat for 6 months, but has been using Red Hat Linux since 1996.  He lives in the (very) rural Eastern Shore of Maryland, and is entirely dedicated to the advancement of UNIX, across the world.

****
== Document Copyright

This document was created by and for Red Hat, Inc. It is being released under link:https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/[Creative Commons License 4.0]. You are free to re-use it in whole or in part.

You must give appropriate credit, provide a link to the license, and indicate if changes were made. You may do so in any reasonable manner, but not in any way that suggests the licensor endorses you or your use.

== Installing Ansible Tower
image::ansible_tower_logo.png[Ansible]
=== Infrastructure

For this lab, we will be using Ansible Tower 3.0.2, which is the latest production release. We are running it in an link:https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/[`m4.xlarge`] AWS instance.
